BIRLA INSTITUTE OF TECHNOLOGY & SCIENCE, PILANI
WORK INTEGRATED LEARNING PROGRAMMES
Cloud Computing (CSI ZG527 / SS ZG527 / SE ZG527)
Second Semester 2020-2021
Assignment
 (Total Marks: 5)
Each student is required to do this assignment. The deadline for this assignment submission
is April 20, 2021. There are two questions totally, and each question carries 2.5 marks. This
assignment aims to get every student to understand the concepts of a simple web application
development using any one of the cloud computing’s PaaS (Platform as a Service) model and
solve a word count problem using the MapReduce programming model. Each of the questions
is provided below:
1. Develop and deploy a simple web application-based login form using either Google App
Engine or Microsoft Azure or AWS (Amazon Web Service) Elastic Beanstalk. This
application should accept the username and password and then display a message “Login
Successfully” after successful validation. Otherwise, display “Login failed due to incorrect
username and password”. This application can be implemented using any programming
language of your choice (HTML with Python, Java, etc.). [2.5 Marks]
2. Write a MapReduce based program to display/generate a word count for each unique
keyword of any given text document. This program can be implemented either locally on
your system or on a virtual machine created using AWS EC2 or Google Cloud Platform’s
Compute Engine. [2.5 Marks]
Submission Instructions:
Create one main folder that contains two sub folders, which represent the above two
questions respectively. Each of the sub-folders should contain the source code, one MS
word document capturing the screenshots of the outputs and the observations if any. Each
subfolder (if necessary) should also contain a read file specifying instructions to compile
and run and shall also specify which program to be run first in order to see the expected
output from your programs.
The main folder must contain one main word file that must include student name, roll
no and email id of each student.
Zip the main folder and upload the zip file on BITS elearn portal (https://taxila-aws.bitspilani.ac.in/) by April 20, 2021 23.59 pm
Note: This assignment will be evaluated purely based on the output screenshots and the descriptive
information that you provide for each of the given question. Hence, you are expected to provide
more detailed information explaining how you got the outputs for each question in a corresponding
word document file. 